# Template for Soc 513 Research Project

This template sets up your research project using proper guidelines about how to organize a project in order to encourage openness and reproduciblity. The structure and organization is heavily influenced by the ideas from [Code and Data for the Social Sciences: A Practitioner's Guide](https://web.stanford.edu/~gentzkow/research/CodeAndData.xhtml) by Matthew Gentzkow and Jesse M. Shapiro. Each sub-directory in this repository contains a README detailing organizational principles. It is assumed that these READMEs will be overwritten with project specific information when this template is used as a starter for a project.

All of the scripts necessary to run the analysis and produce the paper are placed directly into this directory. All datasets should be placed in the `input` or `output` folder.

It is critically important to maintain a logical separation between raw data files that are acquired from elsewhere and serve as a basis for the project from constructed datasets that are created from the raw data by performing typical data manipulation routines (e.g. cleaning, recoding, aggregating, subsetting). All raw data should be kept in the `input` directory. All constructed datasets should be kept in the `output` directory. It should be possible to delete all files in the `output` directory and reproduce them exactly from data in the `input` directory via the constructed scripts. 

I provide here some simple template scripts that you will need to modify for your specific project. They are:

- `check_packages.R` - You can put a list of all libraries used in any R script for the analysis and this script will check to make sure they are installed and if they are not installed it will attempt to install them. This also makes it easier for others to use your programs by installing all necessary libraries. To add or remove libraries from this script, simply edit line 8 of the script.
- `useful_functions.R` - You can put custom functions here that might be used across multiple other scripts. All other scripts source this script in to make these functions available.
- `organize_data.R` - This script will read in raw data, perform data manipulation, and output an analytical dataset for use in your analysis and final paper. Typically, you will want to remove all unnecessary variables, add missing values code, code categorical variables into proper factors, and collapse categorical variables as needed.  
- `analysis.Rmd`/`analysis.R` - To perform the main analysis, which may contain exploratory or supplementary results that are not included in the final paper, you should use one of these scripts. The Rmd version will give you a "lab notebook" where you can write freeform comments that will show along with output when you knit. The R script is a more traditional approach. If you use the script, be sure to use comments well. 
- `paper.Rmd` - This file contains the set up for an Rmd file that can be knit to produce the final paper. This file uses a custom format that will produce a very nice looking paper. You should use R code chunks to produce any tables and figures that you want to be in the final paper. These code chunks can be placed directly in the text of your document and should show up nicely when you knit the document. If you are using a bibliography manager that can export a bibliography as a bibtex document, you can also include references dynamically. Contact me for details on how to do this. Otherwise, if your references are small, you can just enter them by hand. 
